Bluetooth: Mesh: Light LC models (#2053)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: include/bluetooth/mesh/light_ctrl_srv.rst

Too low, and the step response might be too slow or unable to reach the target value altogether.

States
======

Not to be confused with the state machine states, the Light LC Server's states represent its current mode of operation and configuration.

**Mode**: ``bool``

Enables or disables the Light LC Server.
When disabled, the controlled Lightness Server operates independently.

**Occupancy mode**: ``bool``

The occupancy mode controls whether sensor activity can turn the lights on. If disabled, motion and occupancy sensor messages may only prevent the lights from turning off, and a light switch is required to turn them on.

**Light OnOff**: ``bool``

When set, the Light OnOff state may trigger transactions in the lightness state machine. When read, the Light OnOff state indicates whether the lights are turned off (in Standby state) or on (in On or Prolong state).

**Properties**

The Light Control Properties are used to configure the Light LC Server behavior.
See :cpp:type:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_prop` for a list of supported properties and their representation.

Extended models
===============

The Light LC Server extends the following models:

- :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_srv_readme`

> Additionally it requires a :ref:`bt_mesh_lightness_srv_readme` in a different element. See the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_composition` section for details.

Reviewer: As per template, it would be great to describe here how the models relate to each other.

   :alt: Light Lightness Control Server state machine

Note that the state machine only works while the Light LC Server is enabled.
The state machine always starts in the Standby state.

Outputs
*******

The state machine has two different output values for each state:

Light level
   The light level decides the output light level sent to the controlled Light Lightness Server.
   Each state has a configurable light level, and the output light level will be the light level of the current state, with linear transitions between the states. By default, the Standby state sets the light level to 0%, the On state 100% and the Prolong state 50%.
Target illuminance level
   Each state has a configurable target illuminance level, which is used as input to the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_reg_readme`. The target illuminance level decides the ambient illuminance the regulator should try to achieve, as measured by nearby illuminance sensors.
   Just like the light level, the target illuminance always matches the configured target illuminance for the current state, with linear transitions between the states.

External event triggers
***********************

> While the Timeout event is controlled internally, the On and Off events are produced by external behavior.

Author: Not sure I get what you're trying to say. Timeout is an event

> While the Timeout event is controlled internally, the On and Off events are produced by external behavior.

Reviewer 2: Me neither.

The Sensor Server should publish its sensor readings to an address the Light LC Server is subscribed to, using a common application key.

The Light LC Server will process all incoming sensor messages, and use them in the next regulator step. The regulator depends on frequent readings from the sensor server to provide a stable output for the Lightness Server. If the sensor reports are too slow, the regulator might oscillate, as it attempts to compensate for outdated feedback. It is strongly recommended to use the Sensor :ref:`bt_mesh_sensor_publishing_delta` feature for this purpose, triggering frequent reports when the regulator is compensating for large errors, while keeping the mesh traffic low in stable periods.

The Sensor Server may be instantiated on the same mesh node as the Light LC Server, or on a different mesh node in the same area.
The regulator performance depends heavily on the sensor's placement and sensitivity.
In general, ambient light sensor devices should be placed such that their light sensor captures the human perception of the room's light level as closely as possible.

Tuning the regulator
********************

> The impact of each of the two regulator components may be tuned with coefficients. The coefficients K :sub:`p` (for the proportional component) and K :sub:`i` (for the integral component) may have individual values for positive and negative errors (referenced to as Kpu, Kpd, Kiu and Kid in the API).

Reviewer 2: u/d is up/down?

**Mode**: ``bool``

Enables or disables the Light LC Server.
When disabled, the controlled Lightness Server operates independently.

**Occupancy mode**: ``bool``

The occupancy mode controls whether sensor activity can turn the lights on. If disabled, motion and occupancy sensor messages may only prevent the lights from turning off, and a light switch is required to turn them on.

**Light OnOff**: ``bool``

When set, the Light OnOff state may trigger transactions in the lightness state machine. When read, the Light OnOff state indicates whether the lights are turned off (in Standby state) or on (in On or Prolong state).

**Properties**

The Light Control Properties are used to configure the Light LC Server behavior.
See :cpp:type:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_prop` for a list of supported properties and their representation.

Extended models
===============

The Light LC Server extends the following models:

- :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_srv_readme`

Additionally it requires a :ref:`bt_mesh_lightness_srv_readme` in a different element. See the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_composition` section for details.

Persistent Storage
==================

> The Light LC Server stores all its states persistently, using a configurable

Reviewer 2: Only if CONFIG_BT_SETTINGS is enabled.

.. _bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_readme:

Light Lightness Control Server
##############################

The Light Lightness Control (LC) Server controls a single :ref:`bt_mesh_lightness_srv_readme` instance on the same device with a state machine.

The state machine defines common behavior for a Light fixture through three states, each with its own timing parameters and light levels.
As input to its state machine, the Light LC Server listens for Sensor and OnOff messages.

In addition to the state machine, the Light LC Server may optionally use a regulator to control the ambient illuminance in the room.
The regulator requires illuminance sensor readings acting as feedback for its regulator loop.

The Lightness Control Server is always disabled by default, and must be enabled by a :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_cli_readme`.

> Overview

Reviewer: This isn't in the template, but given the size of the model, I've added an Overview. Check placing and introductory sentence, please.

********

Read this section for more detailed information about the following Light LC Server aspects:

* `Composition data structure`_
* `Relationship with other nodes`_
* `Lightness state machine`_
* `Illuminance regulator`_

> 

Reviewer: The headers had incorrect formatting, so please review this list and the header levels.

   When this timer expires, an On event is generated.

.. note::
   Only sensors reporting the *Time since motion sensed* type will be affected by the occupancy delay.
   Other sensor triggers are always instantaneous.

Off event
~~~~~~~~~

The Off event can only be generated by a light switch being turned off.
It moves the Light LC Server into Standby, transitioning from the previous light level with the
:cpp:enumerator:`manual mode Standby fade time <bt_mesh_light_ctrl::BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_PROP_TIME_FADE_STANDBY_MANUAL>` .

The Off event puts the Light LC Server into manual mode, which disables sensor input until the :option:`manual mode timeout <CONFIG_BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_SRV_TIME_MANUAL>` expires.
This prevents the lights from turning back on from the movement of the person pressing the light switch.

.. note::
   Contrary to the other timing parameters, the manual mode timeout is proprietary, and cannot be reconfigured at runtime by other models in the mesh network.

> Light switches may either implement a :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_cli_readme` or a :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_cli_readme` to send Off messages turning the Light LC Server on. The Generic OnOff Client model should publish to the Light LC Server's extended Generic OnOff Server model. The Light Lightness Control Client model should publish Light OnOff Set messages to the Light LC Server.

Reviewer: Please double-check the rst files for lines with multiple sentences.
NCS documentation guidelines (see styleguide) requires 1 sentence per line. I've tried to edit this when reviewing, but apparently missed some lines.

Both the internal integral sum and the output level is represented as an unsigned 16-bit integer.

To reduce noise, the regulator has a configurable accuracy property, which allows it to ignore errors smaller than the configured accuracy (represented as a percentage of the light level).
See :option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_SRV_REG_ACCURACY` and :cpp:enumerator:`BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_PROP_REG_ACCURACY <bt_mesh_light_ctrl::BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_PROP_REG_ACCURACY>` for more information.

.. note::
   The illuminance regulator implementation only supports integers in its configuration.
   The fractional part of coefficients, accuracy, and target levels is ignored.

Sensor input
------------

The regulator relies on regular sensor input data to function correctly.
This sensor data must come from an external :ref:`bt_mesh_sensor_srv_readme` model, reporting the ambient light level with the :cpp:var:`bt_mesh_sensor_present_amb_light_level` sensor type.
The Sensor Server should publish its sensor readings to an address the Light LC Server is subscribed to, using a common application key.

> The Light LC Server will process all incoming sensor messages, and use them in the next regulator step. The regulator depends on frequent readings from the sensor server to provide a stable output for the Lightness Server. If the sensor reports are too slow, the regulator might oscillate, as it attempts to compensate for outdated feedback. It is strongly recommended to use the Sensor :ref:`bt_mesh_sensor_publishing_delta` feature for this purpose, triggering frequent reports when the regulator is compensating for large errors, while keeping the mesh traffic low in stable periods.

Reviewer: If something is strongly recommended, maybe move this to .. tip or .. note?

I'm not sure what "triggering frequent reports" part refers to. It looks like a consequence of using the feature, so maybe "thus triggering" or "for triggering"?

Also, once-sentence-per-line issues here.

The Sensor Server may be instantiated on the same mesh node as the Light LC Server, or on a different mesh node in the same area.
The regulator performance depends heavily on the sensor's placement and sensitivity.
In general, ambient light sensor devices should be placed such that their light sensor captures the human perception of the room's light level as closely as possible.

Tuning the regulator
--------------------

> Regulator tuning is a complex problem depending on a lot of internal and external parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regulator tuning is a complex problem that depends on a lot of internal and external parameters.
```

Varying sensor delay, light output and light change rate may significantly affect the regulator performance and accuracy.
To compensate for the external parameters, each regulator component provides user controllable coefficients that change their impact on the output value:

* K :sub:`p` - for the proportional component
* K :sub:`i` - for the integral component

These coefficients can have individual values for positive and negative errors, referenced to as follows in the API:

> * Kpu - proportional up; used when target is higher.

Reviewer: No :sub: here?

* Kid - integral down; used when target is lower

Regulator tuning is a complex problem depending on a lot of internal external parameters.
Varying sensor delay, light output and light change rate may significantly affect the regulator performance and accuracy.

> Regulators are typically tuned by analyzing their *step response*.

Reviewer: How do the coefficients above relate to this step response?
The transition is a bit abrupt here: you write about coefficients, and then suddenly there is a change of subject.

States
******

Not to be confused with the state machine states, the Light LC Server's states represent its current mode of operation and configuration.

Mode: ``bool``
    Enables or disables the Light LC Server.
    When disabled, the controlled Lightness Server operates independently.

Occupancy mode: ``bool``
    The occupancy mode controls whether sensor activity can turn the lights on.
    If disabled, motion and occupancy sensor messages may only prevent the lights from turning off, and a light switch is required to turn them on.

Light OnOff: ``bool``
    When set, the Light OnOff state may trigger transactions in the lightness state machine.
    When read, the Light OnOff state indicates whether the lights are turned off (in the Standby state) or on (in the On state or the Prolong state).

Properties
    The Light Control Properties are used to configure the Light LC Server behavior.
    See :cpp:type:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_prop` for a list of supported properties and their representation.

Extended models
***************

The Light LC Server extends the following models:

> - :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_srv_readme`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`bt_mesh_onoff_srv_readme`
```

Additionally, it requires a :ref:`bt_mesh_lightness_srv_readme` in a different element.

> See the :ref:`bt_mesh_light_ctrl_srv_composition` section for details.

Reviewer: Would be good to include here some info about how the models relate to each other, as per template.

Persistent Storage
******************

If :option:`CONFIG_BT_SETTINGS` is enabled, the Light LC Server stores all its states persistently using a configurable storage delay to stagger storing.
See :option:`CONFIG_BT_MESH_LIGHT_CTRL_SRV_STORE_TIMEOUT`.

Changes to the configuration properties are stored and restored on power up, so the compile time configuration is only valid the first time the devices powers up, until the configuration is changed.

Power up behavior
=================

When powering up, the Light LC Server behavior depends on the controlled Lightness Server's extended :ref:`bt_mesh_ponoff_srv_readme`'s state:

> - On Power Up is :cpp:enumerator:`BT_MESH_ON_POWER_UP_OFF <bt_mesh_ponoff::BT_MESH_ON_POWER_UP_OFF>` - The Light LC Server is disabled, and the Lightness Server remains off.

Reviewer: Please use * for lists.
